Purpose First
-------------

.. image:: img/chimp_battlefield_1.jpg
   :width: 896px
   :height: 512px

There have been times when people have come together, struggled through
incredible hardship, and made tremendous personal sacrifices, in order
to achieve a staggering outcome.

I want to pick as an example all the nations that fought in World War
II, but I want to look at 1947 to 1952. `In Germany`_, the Allies,
including Russia, were brutal after the war. German civilians suffered
1.5 to 2 million deaths after the end of the war. But then in 1947 the
West implemented the Marshall Plan, and built Germany back up. This was
not unrelated to the threat of Communism. The equivalent of hundreds of
billions of today's dollars were loaned to and invested in Germany. The
West provided a market for German products and services. Germany
reestablished its own currency. They formed a new democratic
government. Unemployment decreased. Production increased. The standard
of living increased.

A similar process of reconstruction happened `in Japan`_. Massive
political and economic reforms resulted in the dismantling of ancient
social stratification, allowing economic mobility, and the
liberalization of society, including the enfranchisement of women.
Again, a new threat, the war in Korea, provided a market for goods and
services from Japan, and helped to rebuild the economy.

Was everything peachy? Absolutely not. Some things were terrible and I
am skipping over those things. But recent enemies came together, and
built something better than what had existed before. Some would argue,
better than what had existed in the countries of both the vanquished
and the victors!

World War II, and post-war threats like Communism and a new war in
Korea, gave people something to overcome, and to struggle for. It
united them with a common purpose.

Recently `in Edinburgh`_, people pushed rocket fireworks through the
mail slots in the front doors of random strangers. They threw bottles,
bricks and fireworks at police ... because ... it's fun.

We all know what happened recently in America: A rapist and convicted
felon, who tried to overturn the results of the previous election, won
this election. I live a very sheltered live, and it's difficult for me
to understand how this can happen. It sounds like it has many causes.

One cause is the same reason that teenagers push rocket fireworks
through the mail slots in the front doors of random people, and throw
bottles, bricks and fireworks at police:

People need to feel part of a team. They need something that they want
to work together for, struggle for, win at.

They need to be the heroes of their own `hero narrative`_.

They need to be given a purpose.

A purpose carried by a powerful story. And for what I'm proposing, it
will need to be a true story.


.. _In Germany: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reconstruction_of_Germany
.. _in Japan: https://history.state.gov/milestones/1945-1952/japan-reconstruction
.. _in Edinburgh: https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/cwy1v577lneo
.. _hero narrative: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hero%27s_journey
