The Story
---------

.. todo:
   Generate an image of a chimpanzee reading to a human baby.

First, let's be clear about the real issues:

* Climate change is a real thing. As areas appropriate for particular
  crops shift to different areas, crops and/or people will need to
  shift, which will result in conflict and war. This is happening
  already. Dimagi has projects in some of these places. Climate change
  will also result in disastrous hurricanes, storms and floods. Also
  happening already. All of this will continue to get worse.

* Apart from a few very scary moments, in particular a truly terrifying
  `moment in 1962`_, nukes have been safeguarded by just two groups of
  adults. That is no longer true. Today the largest arsenal is
  controlled by a megalomaniacal tyrant who is currently invading
  Europe, and soon the second-largest arsenal will be controlled by an
  easily flattered, narcissistic man-baby. Rapidly approaching from
  behind is China, with India, Pakistan and Israel also in the race,
  and new entrant North Korea, headed by a guy who executed his uncle,
  along with his uncle's children and grandchildren: Not the kind of
  guy I would want controlling weapons that could cause the kind of
  nuclear winter that would kill off everyone except a handful of tech
  billionaires with bunkers in New Zealand.

  The more civilization-ending bombs that humanity is juggling, the more
  likely it becomes that we'll drop one. And if they are controlled by
  people who are thinking about using them, and we know they're
  thinking about it because they say so out loud, the risk just
  escalates.

* In 2001 a small group of people studied how to fly aeroplanes, and
  then successfully managed to fly three out of four into buildings.
  They hoped to trigger a conflict that would bring an end to Western
  society.

  Today it would be possible for a small group of people to study how to
  create a variation of smallpox in a lab. Covid had a death rate of
  between 1 and 2% of those infected. Smallpox has a death rate much
  much higher than that, and a synthetic variant could reach upwards of
  90%. If the only survivors were children, they would soon starve.

  As a metaphor for a world in which it is increasingly easy to wipe out
  humanity, imagine an American high school where Second Amendment
  activists have ensured that every teenager has a fully automatic
  submachine gun. (To be clear, this is a hypothetical.) Every country
  other than America has done a reasonably good job at preventing
  teenagers from acquiring guns. But let's think about the other way to
  prevent mass murders in schools: None of the kids want to.

  If you gave me a submachine gun, I wouldn't use it to kill everyone.
  You probably wouldn't either.

  As it becomes easier to kill everyone---literally everyone---we will
  need to figure out how to identify the people who might, and help
  them not to. And I chose those words deliberately. We cannot punish
  people for crimes we think they might commit. We have to help them,
  so that they don't want to.

  Ideally, help everyone, so that no one wants to.

* Things used to be uncomplicated for men. Right from Day 1, a baby boy
  was a little cooler than a baby girl. Dads loved their daughters, of
  course, but they played catch in the yard with their sons. Took them
  to football matches. Introduced them to their business connections,
  and taught them how to shake hands like a man.

  Boys were raised with certain expectations.

  Except, now there are girls who have the same expectations.

  And it comes as a rude surprise for men that their expectations aren't
  special. The things that previously were only available to men, like
  the best-paying job, or the legal right to make all of the decisions,
  now those things are available to everyone.

  So men can no longer trade on them. Women used to need men, and that
  is no longer true.

  Some men understand that the way to get laid, and to have happy,
  successful relationships, is not to trade access to money for those
  things, but rather to be the kind of person that other people want to
  sleep with, and to have happy, successful relationships with.

  Other men don't understand this. A surprising number of them,
  actually. Being a decent human being is complicated. They want their
  expectations back. They want to go back to the "good old days". They
  want to Make Men Great Again.

  All of us have to help men, starting when they are boys, to be the
  kind of person that other people want to sleep with, and to have
  happy, successful relationships with, for no other reason than the
  kind of person they are. Otherwise our society will tear itself in
  two.

There are other risks, but we'll leave it at that.

Let's also be clear about what is not a real issue:

* When I was at school, some people didn't fit neatly into the Barbie or
  GI Joe boxes. We had names for those people. "Tom boy" was one of the
  nicer ones. Today people who don't fit neatly look around, and don't
  see as much vitriol permeating the air about people like themselves,
  and so they aren't as scared of talking about themselves to other
  people. But now that more of them are feeling safe enough to talk,
  safe enough even to live in a way that more accurately represents
  themselves, it is taking the Barbies and the G.I. Joes by surprise,
  and the Barbies and the G.I. Joes are losing their minds.

  This is not an issue. The people who don't fit have always been here.
  The job of the Barbies and the G.I. Joes is to shut up and listen. If
  they listen attentively enough, they might understand: Society is not
  falling apart. It is healing.

So, if we want to come up with a reality-based story, those are the
issues our story should touch on.

If we are comfortable with lying, all the limits are off. Call me a
libtard, and a skeptic. But I haven't yet given up on telling people
the truth.

But as a skeptic, I acknowledge that I could be wrong about that. More
people identify as Christians than any other religion, but they are
only 31%, less than a third, of all of us. And so every single one of
us has to acknowledge that at least 70% of humanity, possibly more if
you don't identify as a Christian, believe things that aren't true.

That is to say that everyone must recognise, even if you don't think
that what you believe is bullshit, that globally bullshit has been
massively successful, by a very, very wide margin.

So my hope, that we can come up with a reality-based story, might
actually be wildly optimistic. But I think it's worth a try.

Ethical concerns about lying aside, the goal here is to come up with a
better system: A system for solving problems. And if one of the
problems we're trying to solve is bullshit, then establishing that
system by creating a sense of purposed based on a bullshit story, is a
fundamental structural flaw, and the system can only be successful up
to the point at which it dismantles itself. So that's not going to
work.

The story needs a *tangible* threat. The threat of Communism was pivotal
in the successful rebuilding of Germany. The war in Korea was
instrumental in the reconstruction of Japan. "Illegals" who
are "invading our country" and "eating the dogs", are a tangible
threat, even though it is wildly distorted. "Climate change" is just
not tangible. The threat needs to conjure the face of a human
antagonist in people's minds.

How about the oil corporation executive, and the coal mine shareholders,
and the PR and marketing consultants? They have all been lying to us so
that they can keep on grifting as long as possible, because it is our
children who will go hungry, and fight and die in avoidable wars, not
them or theirs.

How do we fight them?

We make it a crime to lie to the electorate. If we are to make
informed choices, if we are to consent to the actions of our rulers, we
must know what is true. When Enron lied in their financial reporting,
shareholders sued them for $40,000,000,000. It's against the law to lie
to shareholders. But it's not against the law to lie to voters. *That
is insane.* It must change immediately.

And what about the plutocrats; the billionaire friends of politicians
(and supreme court justices), the bros who have governments at their
mercy, and the heirs who inherited real estate empires from their dads?
Tax cuts for the rich must be linked with reducing social services that
will hollow out the middle class. All stable democracies rely on a
middle class that is strong enough to hold their leaders to account. We
all know countries where the leadership is not held to account. They
all have a weak middle class.

How do we fight them?

This is a tough one. We all have to pay 39% on both income and capital
gains. Everyone, we all pay the same percent, so that rich people don't
get to claim that they are supporting the country. Everyone is
supporting the country at the same rate. 39% gives the government a big
lever to manage inflation, while it spends on social services and
investments. And then everyone gets those social services. Rich and
poor. Everyone gets to go to school. Everyone gets enough transport to
get to school or to work. Everyone gets enough electricity to cook with
and to study by. Everyone gets medical care. You don't need medical
insurance if the medical care is good. When rich people get services
that benefit them too, then they don't feel like their taxes are some
kind of charity. When social services cover what poor people need, not
only to make a living, but also to get ahead, then they can afford 39%
tax.

There is one other benefit: When everyone has the opportunities that
they need to succeed, not just the lucky ones, then historical
inequities can be resolved.

Every time the topic of taxes comes up, the plutocrats threaten to
leave. But that is not a problem!

    Norway also came up with the idea of the state owning shares in
    private companies: after the second world war the government
    nationalised all German business interests in Norway and ended up
    owning 44% of Norsk Hydro’s shares. The formula of controlling
    business through shares rather than regulation seemed to work
    well ...

    -- `The Economist`_

Countries don't need plutocrats. The governments of market-based
economies can invest money in companies themselves.

Oh dear. That got nerdy very fast, and nerdy economics doesn't work in a
story. Let's try that again.

How do we fight them?

We all pay more tax. We all get the services we need, to give us all a
chance to succeed like they did. If they refuse to pay the same as all
of us, we will arrest them. If they run away, we will replace their
money.

That sounds a little snappier.

Again, though, we should definitely workshop this. I have zero
bestsellers under my belt. I don't imagine that my story is a great
one. What stories can you tell?


.. _moment in 1962: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cuban_Missile_Crisis
.. _The Economist: https://web.archive.org/web/20180315074202/https://www.economist.com/news/special-report/21570842-oil-makes-norway-different-rest-region-only-up-point-rich
