Enablement
----------

.. image:: img/antelope_bucks.jpg
   :width: 512px
   :height: 512px

If Representation was the WhatsApp or Slack part of the Republic of
Humanity, then Enablement is the CommCare Connect part.

Enablement is how the Republic of Humanity gets things done.

Or, keeping with Dimagi context, if Representation touches on Team, then
Enablement touches on Profit. (The next section, Execution, will touch
on Impact.)

The Republic of Humanity has a floating fiat currency. I would call it
"ROH Bucks", but I worry that the name "Robux" is already taken. It is
not a cryptocurrency; it is not governed by an algorithm. It is issued
by the Central Bank, which is the Republic of Humanity's equivalent of
the South African Reserve Bank or the Federal Reserve Bank. The Central
Bank is independent of the representatives, to ensure that they can't
just issue more money themselves. (I'm looking at you, Zimbabwe.)

The Republic of Humanity pays companies and individuals to execute on
the decisions made by representatives. These decisions can include
providing services to members, or solving problems in the world.

Remember, zooming all the way out for a second, the Republic of Humanity
has true stories, to inspire people with purpose. And the motivation
driven by that purpose is channeled to solve problems. That's what the
Republic of Humanity is for: Identifying problems, finding solutions,
and executing on them.

The people who do that work are paid in ROH Bucks. They get to spend
their ROH Bucks on other businesses and individuals.

But the Republic of Humanity can't just keep paying people with more and
more ROH Bucks. That would result in run-away inflation. They need to
recoup the currency that they issued. The ordinary way that they do
that is by levying taxes.

I am not an economist, but I have picked up a few ideas. If it were up
to me, the Republic of Humanity would levy three main taxes:

* Income tax, set at an (almost) flat rate of 39%. It's relatively high
  in contemporary standards, but it allows for a relatively high volume
  of currency to be issued.

* Capital gains tax (the tax on selling investments, like shares), set
  at the same rate as income tax. That means that people who are rich
  enough not to need a day job pay the same rate of tax as people who
  do need a day job.

* Wealth tax. This is controversial in some countries, but certainly not
  new. Wealth tax would be tied to inflation, so that inflation hurts
  everyone, not only the poor.

The second way to recoup currency would be for the Central Bank to issue
bonds. This allows members of the Republic of Humanity to support
specific programmes that they personally feel are important, and to
invest in the future.

And thirdly, as a form of charitable giving, members may choose to pay
more than their fair share of tax. Doing so earns them badges of
honour. They are given vouchers that allow them to buy ROH-branded
luxury items that are only available to people who pay above and beyond
their fair share.

A word about distribution. In some places today, local property taxes
pay for local schools. That means that richer neighbourhoods get better
schools. That's not equitable. Location-based services, like schools,
must be funded equitably. But, a callback to autonomy, location groups
should be able to decide how their funding is allocated.
