Execution
---------

.. image:: img/chimp_greek_building.jpg
   :width: 896px
   :height: 512px

This is the impact part. To an audience like Dimagi, this bit is
obvious.

A lot of work needs to be done in the world. At Dimagi we have a better
idea than many people of what that work looks like. And it's not just
healthcare for the under-served.

With greater technological risks, we need to hear and to help every
person. Even simpler than counseling and mentoring, just providing
friendship and community can turn society into a healthier, happier,
more responsible, more accountable place to exist. ... But counseling
and mentoring too.

Climate change results in people moving because they have to. Homes and
buildings and businesses need to be built. Damaged property needs to be
rebuilt. Land needs to be reallocated and rehabilitated.

I could talk about nerdy stuff like how software funded by ROH Bucks
should be open source. And how pharmaceuticals should not be developed
based only on a profit model.

But I want to make sure I cover the way that governments create their
own problems: There is a lot of disgruntlement, and anger, felt by
people who have been sidelined, or forgotten, or systemically
disadvantaged, by governments.

That gets fixed in different ways:

* Being part of the government through representation

* Equitable allocation of funding for a comprehensive suite of services
  that together provide economic opportunities. So not just education,
  but transport and electricity too. Many Western countries do a
  terrible job at this, where communities remain economically
  disadvantaged, generation after generation.

* Being part of the solution. The Irish in the 19th century in America
  were a social underclass until many of them took roles in the
  services that the government paid for. But, again, the government
  needs to step up. Roles like nurses, teachers, and cops, must be paid
  a wage that is commensurate with the contributions that they make to
  society. These jobs should not just be a calling. They should be
  rewarded.

To a libertarian all that government spending sounds like a hellscape,
but it can be done efficiently. The government doesn't always have to
hire people directly. The way this often works is that the government
hires companies, and those companies hire people. That improves
efficiency.

Sometimes a government can also buy shares in companies. It is a way to
advise them like venture capital investors do, or even an alternative
mechanism to guide them without using regulation.

The Republic of Humanity has an opportunity to execute on solutions to
intractable problems in our societies. But there is on *sine qua non*;
one thing without which everything will fail.
