Team
----

.. image:: img/chimp_kitten.jpg
   :width: 512px
   :height: 512px

We are back to Team.

When you have parallel media universes, and social media stops deleting
or tagging lies, you can invent a comprehensive fake universe, with
wildly distorted enemies, and present yourselves as struggling underdog
good guys.

In the run-up to the last US presidential election, one party crafted a
narrative that resonated more strongly than reality. They told a story
in which there is an armed invasion from the south, with operatives who
have infiltrated the whole of society (and also, they're eating our
dogs.) A story in which women are murdering their newborns. A story in
which the economy has never been worse.

And we should recognize that they achieved this by listening to their
audience---hearing, and understanding them---in a way that the other
party did not.

But legislating against misleading the electorate is not good enough.
The electorate should, as much as possible, be lie-proof. Education is
an investment in the capital of society, and that includes being media
literate, giving weight to expertise while still skeptical of
authority. It's difficult, I know, but as best as possible, everyone
should know how to evaluate information. And if we can get that right,
then ideas like vaccines causing autism, or Q-Anon, will never be able
to take off.

The members of the Republic of Humanity are the foundation of the
success of everything. Politics must no longer be a top-down project of
how many voters a politician can persuade. It must be a bottom-up
project of how do we identify problems, find solutions, resource them,
and execute on them.

We need a problem-solving, solution-executing system. We have some
really big problems, and deporting immigrants (just for example) is not
going to solve those problems, just creating new ones. In fact, the
Republic of Humanity shouldn't be deporting anyone, because can use all
the help we can get.
